TELCODOCS-1277: first draft (#63309)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/kmm-customizing-upgrades-for-kernel-modules.adoc

= Customizing upgrades for kernel modules

Use this procedure to upgrade the kernel module while running maintenance operations on the node, including rebooting the node, if needed. To minimize the impact on the workloads running in the cluster, run the kernel upgrade process sequentially, one node at a time.

[NOTE]
====
This procedure requires knowledge of the workload utilizing the kernel module and must be managed by the cluster administrator.
====

.Prerequisites

* Terminate all user application workloads on the node or move them to another node.

* Unload the currently loaded kernel module.

* Ensure that the user workload (the application running in the cluster that is accessing kernel module) is not running on the node prior to kernel module unloading and that the workload is back running on the node after the new kernel module version has been loaded.

* Ensure that the device plugin managed by KMM on the node is unloaded before the upgrade process and reloaded following the upgrade process.

* Due to Kubernetes limitations in label names, the combined length of `Module` name and namespace must not exceed 39 characters.

.Procedure

> .Prerequisites

Reviewer: It seems weird to me that there are two sets of prerequisites. Also, these prerequisites seems like an entire procedure? Which has me thinking that maybe this instance of the word .Prerequisites should be deleted?

> . Before upgrading, set the `kmm.node.kubernetes.io/version-module.<module-namespace>.<module-name>=$moduleVersion` label on all the nodes that will be used by the kernel module.

Reviewer 2: So is this actually a prereq to this procedure? "Before upgrading..."

Author: I'll make this a prereq.

> * Before upgrading, set the `kmm.node.kubernetes.io/version-module.<module-namespace>.<module-name>=$moduleVersion` label on all the nodes that will be used by the kernel module.

Reviewer: Should this be a prerequisite step, and the actual procedure begin with "Update the following. . ." ?

- `containerImage` (to the appropriate kernel version)
- `version`
+
The update should be atomic; that is, both the `containerImage` and `version` fields must be updated simultaneously.

. Terminate any workload using the kernel module on the node being upgraded.

. Remove the `kmm.node.kubernetes.io/version-module.<module-namespace>.<module-name>` label on the node. This unloads the kernel module from the node.

. If required, perform any additional maintenance required on the node for the kernel module upgrade.

. Add the `kmm.node.kubernetes.io/version-module.<module-namespace>.<module-name>=$moduleVersion` label to the node. `$moduleVersion` should be equal to the new value of the `version` field in the `Module` CR.

. Restore any workload that leverages the kernel module on the node.

[NOTE]
====

> If no additional upgrading (Step 4) is needed, then the process is simplified to changing the `kmm.node.kubernetes.io/version-module.<module-namespace>.<module-name>=$moduleVersion` label. Steps 3, 4 and 5 are thus unified into a single step:

Reviewer 2: I still feel this note is confusing tbh.

Author: @Aidan I spoke with Costi and we came up this - "If no additional upgrading is needed, you can skip Steps 3 through 6 by updating the `[kmm.node.kubernetes.io/version-module](http://kmm.node.kubernetes.io/version-module).<module-namespace>.<module-name>` label value to the new `$moduleVersion` as set in the `Module`."

Reviewer 2: OK cool. I presume what we are getting at here is that you can only upgrade a single kernel module at a time. Is this the case?

Author: @aireilly From Costi - "you can do multiple at the same time, if you respect the procedure"

Author: /label merge-review-needed

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * hardware_enablement/kmm-kernel-module-management.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="kmm-customizing-upgrades-for-kernel-modules_{context}"]

> = Customizing upgrades for kernel modules

Reviewer 2: Is this title accurate? Are we customizing how to do an upgrade? What about just "Upgrading the kernel on a cluster node"

> Use this procedure to upgrade the kernel module while running maintenance operations on the node,

Reviewer 2: Please remove the hard-wrapped lines. Update your editor preferences. See https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#general-file-guidelines

Author: Removed.

> Use this procedure to upgrade the kernel module while running maintenance operations on the node,

Reviewer 2: The sentence "Use this procedure to upgrade the kernel module while running maintenance operations on the node, including rebooting the node, if needed." is not very clear. 
```suggestion
Use this procedure to upgrade the kernel module while running maintenance operations on the node, including rebooting the node.
```

Author: s/including/ such as

> including rebooting the node, if needed. To minimize the impact on the workload running in the cluster, run the upgrade process

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To minimize the impact on workloads running in the cluster, run the kernel upgrade process sequentially, one node at a time.
```

> sequentially, one node at a time. Because it requires knowledge of the workload utilizing the kernel module, this process is

Reviewer 2: Not sure this sentence makes sense: "Because it requires knowledge of the workload utilizing the kernel module, this process is managed by the cluster administrator."

I think you can safely remove it.

Author: Changed to "This procedure requires knowledge of the workload utilizing the kernel module and must be managed by the cluster administrator."

managed by the cluster administrator.

.Prerequisites

> * To successfully upgrade a kernel module to a new version, the currently loaded kernel module

Reviewer 2: I think you can edit these prereqs for brevity. what about: 

```suggestion
* Terminate all user application workloads on the node or move them to another node.
* Unload the currently loaded kernel module. 
```

Also, are these actually prereqs, or should they be part of the procedure to upgrade the kernel on the node? If they are, I think you should provide concrete steps and commands to do these things.

Author: Made these changes.

should be unloaded, and a new kernel module file should be loaded.
This means that you should terminate all user-mode application/workloads using the kernel module
before attempting to unload the kernel module.

> * Ensure that the user workload (the application running in the cluster that is accessing kernel

Reviewer 2: I find it difficult to understand this prereq. I think it's not required in any case? Suggest removing it or clarifying what you mean. 

```suggestion
```

Author: No change.

module) is not running on the node prior to kernel module unloading and
that the workload is back running on the node after the new kernel module version has been loaded.

> * Ensure that the device plugin managed by KMM on the node is unloaded before the upgrade process

Reviewer 2: This doesn't seem like a prereq to me. IMO this should be a step in the procedure that needs to be documented.

Author: Will address this in the enhancement story.

and reloaded following the upgrade process.

> * Due to Kubernetes limitations in label names, the combined length of `Module` name and namespace

Reviewer 2: This isn't a prereq - more like a note on the labeling step of the procedure.

Author: Will address this in the enhancement story.

must not exceed 39 characters.

.Procedure

> . Before upgrading, set the `kmm.node.kubernetes.io/version-module.<module-namespace>.<module-name>=$moduleVersion` label on all the nodes that will be used by the kernel module.

Reviewer 2: Provide an `oc` command or an example that applies the label to the specified node.

Author: Will address this in the enhancement story.

> . Update the following fields:

Reviewer 2: Update the following fields of what CR?

Author: "Update the following fields in the `Module` CR"

- `containerImage` (to the appropriate kernel version)
- `version`
+

> The update should be atomic: both the `containerImage` and `version` fields must be updated simultaneously.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand what atomic means in this step. Can you elaborate?

> . Terminate any workload using the kmod on the node being upgraded.

Reviewer 2: Suggest providing an example `oc` command or set of steps to do this. Also, what is kmod? First mention if this tool here.

Author: Will address this in the enhancement story.

> . Remove the `kmm.node.kubernetes.io/version-module.<module-namespace>.<module-name>` label on the node.

Reviewer 2: Can we provide an `oc` command to do this, and a way to verify that the label was successfully removed?

Author: Will address this in the enhancement story.

This unloads the kernel module from the node.

. If required, perform any additional maintenance required on the node for the kmod upgrade.

> . Add the `kmm.node.kubernetes.io/version-module.<module-namespace>.<module-name>=$moduleVersion` label to the node.

Reviewer 2: Again, would like to see an `oc` command to do this, and some way to verify that the label was applied successfully.

Author: Will address this in the enhancement story.

> `$moduleVersion` should be equal to the new value of the `version` field in the `Module`.

Reviewer 2: What is `Module` in this context? Is it a CR? A YAML example might clarify what you are talking about.

Author: Added "CR".

> . Restore any workload that leverages the kernel module on the node.

Reviewer 2: Can you provide an example command or set of steps that shows how to do this?

Author: Will address this in the enhancement story.

> [NOTE]

Reviewer 2: This note could be incorporated into the procedure after step 4 above I think.

Author: No change for now.
